

“We are all apprentices in a craft where no one ever becomes a master.” – Ernest Hemingway

There are certain things in life that you can only truly appreciate if you have tried to do them yourself. Don't mistake that statement with enjoyment, there are a lot of things you can enjoy while being blissfully ignorant to how they came about. But appreciation of that item takes things to a whole different level. 

I am by no means a prolific home brewer but I have successfully made several beers that other people have drank to varying degrees of enjoyment. This does not make me an expert brewer, but what it has given me is an immense appreciation for what it takes to brew beer (as well as other sprints, and wine) at a professional level that I will never get to. 

The first thing that you notice is the scale of ingredients that are needed between home brewer and pro, we used about 10 lbs of grain and 5 oz of hops for a 5 gallon batch, for some perspective Gigantic Brewery out of Portland posts their 1 barrel recipes <https://www.giganticbrewing.com/pages/the-royale-recipe> (31 gallons) which uses 68 lbs of grain and 41 oz of hops in a very similar Belgian Ale. We haven't even discussed the amount of water that is needed to do this, which requires being heated up and cooled down as part of the process. Now when you think about the breweries who use 7 or 10 barrel systems, or the really big brewers who are brewing on 1,000 barrel systems several times a day the scale of materials and work become staggering. 

While I will never brew at that kind of scale there is still plenty to learn at the home brewer level. The second biggest take away I have gotten from brewing myself is the knowledge of what the ingredients smell and taste like by themselves. It doesn't take much to start obsessing over the grains and the hops that you add to your beer, you almost start to think like a chef. The best ingredients make the best dishes, or in our case beers. You start to pick up on what those Simcoe hops smell like and so you start to be able to identify them in your favorite beers, like piney hops they may be Simcoe. Like that chocolate toasty taste of your favorite stout, they probably used a few pounds of a dark roasted specialty malt in the grain bill of the beer. Does that vanilla porter use an extract or where do they source their vanilla beans, from Tahiti or Madagascar? By taking the time to try these ingredients yourself you start to really understand how these flavors work together to make a great beer. 

The last big take away I always think about when brewing my own beer is just how consistent pro brewers are when making the same beer over and over again with ever changing environments. Based on the climate the grains and hops that get used might have ever slightly different profiles even though they are the same type you bought last year so brewers have to adjust the amounts and temperatures in order to make sure the final product is that same as the last batch. 

**As a personal note, brewers should fully lean in to highlighting those differences instead of trying to correct them out of the brewing process to create an identical beer every time. The vintage aspect works for wines and some sprits I hope one day brewers lean into it as well, but until that the small course corrections that professional brewers make during the brewing process to ensure consistency when brewing the same beer over and over will never cease to amaze me. 

As a smaller take away, I have been reading the book Water, Wood and Wild Things by Hannah Krishner which is about Japanese crafting and cultivation in the rural areas, which as young people move away from rural area to the bigger cities for jobs and opportunities some of those techniques are dying out with the older generations. I am happy that some in the craft beer community have embraced searching out of the older brewing techniques and beers and have made sure that they survive for at least a couple more generations, here are two stories to learn about some of them <https://www.morebeer.com/articles/berliner_weisse> and <https://www.goodbeerhunting.com/blog/2019/7/22/a-fire-being-kindled-the-revolutionary-story-of-kveik-norways-extraordinary-farmhouse-yeast> 

Hopefully you find your craft and it gives you a greater appreciation for those who have spent decades trying to master it

Prost! 

Sip Craft Beer